DO_NOT_MERGE ROPE (#2605)
foam-framework/foam2: src/foam/nanos/rope/README.md

![ROPE Logo](rope.png)

# ROPE User Guide and Documentation

> &nbsp;

Reviewer: No need for this

Author: removed

## ROPE Description

> #### Idea behind it

Reviewer: Not a useful heading imo

Author: removed

> At an abstract level, ROPE utilizes the built in FOAM relationship framework to allow the user of the FOAM framework to perform authorization checks based on previously declared relationships and the level of authorization they are configured to be granted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can use ROPE to perform authorization checks based on relationships between models. The idea is that we can determine whether or not a user is authorized to access a given object by following a chain of relationships between objects from the object being accessed back to the user. If a suitable chain is found, then the user is granted access. Each link in the chain (called a "Rope") can be configured to allow certain accesses via it and disallow others.
```

> The ROPE authorization system searches the tree formed by these relationships and their implied permissions to see if the object trying to perform an operation on another object is in some way connected to it through the relationship framework in a way that would imply it being able to have some desired permissions. This allows for the formation of very complex and flexible nets of permissions to be defined without the need for any of it to be hard coded into its corresponding locations in a hard to manage and modify mess; it is all defined by ROPEs.

Reviewer: > tree

It's actually a graph, not a tree. Please update the docs to reflect this.

> relationships and their implied permissions

Relationships only imply permissions in the colloquial meaning of the words. `Permission` and `imply` are both words with concrete meanings in FOAM, and I think it's confusing to the reader to use these words in FOAM documentation when they don't refer to the FOAM concepts of permission and implies.

> the object trying to perform an operation on another object

It's always a user trying to perform an operation on an object. I think it would be clearer to state it that way as well.

> through the relationship framework

I think "through the relationship graph" is more correct.

> This allows for the formation of very complex and flexible nets of permissions to be defined without the need for any of it to be hard coded into its corresponding locations in a hard to manage and modify mess; it is all defined by ROPEs.

I think this can be stated in a simpler way. Maybe something like "ROPE can be reconfigured at runtime, which makes it more flexible than doing authorization checks in code, which can only be changed at compile time."

Author: updated

One of the key defining features that makes the ROPE algorithm's authorization so versatile and configurable is the transitivity it gains from its nature. An abstract example being some object ***A*** attempting to perform an operation on some other object ***C***. Although ***A*** may not be directly related to ***C***, it may be related to some intermediate object ***B*** which is itself related to object ***C***. Given the correct configuration of the ROPEs on these two relationships; object A can be granted certain permissions toward object ***C*** through its relationship to object ***B***.

> More generally this applies for properties themselves within the objects and the relationships between them. ROPE allows you to work at both the property level when it comes to authorization for much needed simplicity in acheiving fine-grained controll. 

Reviewer: Typos
```suggestion
More generally this applies for properties themselves within the objects and the relationships between them. ROPE allows you to work at both the property level when it comes to authorization for much needed simplicity in achieving fine-grained control.
```

&nbsp;

#### Using ROPE with DAOs

> The ROPE authorization system can be utilized by the user of the framework by appending a ROPEAuthorizer decorator to any DAO object that requires authorization. This decorator follows the standard FOAM Authorizer interface and performs authorization checks dynamically as the dao is used using the ROPE relationship search algorithm under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use ROPE by adding an `AuthorizationDAO` decorator with a `ROPEAuthorizer` to any DAO.
```

Here is the set up of transactionDAO if one were to use the ROPEAuthorizer.

```java
transactionDAO = new foam.dao.EasyDAO.Builder(x)
  .setAuthorizer(
    foam.nanos.rope.ROPEAuthorizer.Builder(x)
      .setTargetDAOKey("transactionDAO")
      .build()
  )
      .
      . 
      .
  .build();
```

> Permissions based on relationships can be configured by the user by creating a ROPE objects from the ROPE.js model and setting the properties accordingly and afterwards appending the object to the application's ropeDAO which will be utilized by the ROPE algorithm to perform authorization checks. Given a missing ROPE, the algorithm trivially assumes that all permissions are not granted on that object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access control based on relationships can be configured by the user by creating instances of the ROPE.js model, setting the properties appropriately, and putting the ROPE to `ropeDAO`, which is used by `ROPEAuthorizer` to perform authorization checks.
```

> &nbsp;

Reviewer: Unnecessary imo

#### Composition of ROPES

> There are a few helper ROPEs with which can be used to combine regular ROPEs to form more complex logical operations. There are known more formally as composite ropes. AND and OR ROPEs can be found in the compositeROPE.js file. These act as regular ROPEs except that under the hood they delegate their checks to other ropes composed within them. The OR composite authorizes if only one of the ROPEs it is composed with authorizes and the AND requires all composed ROPEs to authorize. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few higher-order ROPEs that can be used to combine regular ROPEs to form more complex logical operations. They are known more formally as composite ropes. AND and OR ROPEs can be found in the `CompositeROPE.js` file. These act as regular ROPEs except that under the hood they delegate their checks to other ropes composed within them. The OR composite authorizes if only one of the ROPEs it is composed with authorizes and the AND requires all composed ROPEs to authorize. 
```

> &nbsp;

Reviewer: Also unnecessary imo

&nbsp;

## Technical Notes on the Proper Setup of ROPE Objects

##### ROPEAuthorizer

> Akin to any standard foam authorizer, ROPEAuthorizer is an implementation of the corresponding interface and can be used interchangably on any DAO. Each ROPEAuthorizer has a corresponding targetDAOKey property which is utilized in finding the corresponding ROPEs to perform authorization checked with. The bulk of the algorithm is implemented within the ROPE model itself with an entrypoint in the check method to which the ROPEAuthorizer merely delegates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Akin to any standard FOAM authorizer, `ROPEAuthorizer` is an implementation of the corresponding interface and can be used interchangeably on any DAO. Each `ROPEAuthorizer` has a corresponding `targetDAOKey` property which is utilized in finding the corresponding ROPEs to perform authorization checked with. The bulk of the algorithm is implemented within the ROPE model itself with an entry point in the check method to which the `ROPEAuthorizer` merely delegates.
```
